DOC: legal process to perform a public release of a PyAnsys library (#236)
pyansys/dev-guide: doc/source/how-to/releasing.rst

  .. include:: diag/release_branch.rst

Releasing new versions
----------------------
Releasing is the process of creating a version of a software that developers
consider useful for customers or other developers. Releases are usually labeled

> with *tags*. These tags allow to quickly identify a release in the version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with *tags*. These tags are used to quickly identify a release in the version
```

control system.

> Before performing a release, verify that:

Reviewer: Just a comment. The Google style guide considers accessibility. It recommends not introducing lists like in this line so because it might confuse a blinder user who was having the documentation read to him or her. This isn't even a consideration I've thought of before. In this case, we could use this sentence: Before performing a release, you must verify that these requirements are met:

Author: Thanks for this suggestion, Kathy. Let me apply this in other sections of the document where some requirements need to be met before starting some task.

- |uncheck| Your main or release branch is up to date.
- |uncheck| All code and documentation style checks are passing successfully.
- |uncheck| All tests are passing successfully.
- |uncheck| All documentation builds successfully.

.. tab-set::

>     .. tab-item:: New major and minor versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .. tab-item:: New major or minor versions
```
Use "or" here on the tab to match the "or" in the first sentence?

    
        When creating a new major or minor version, ensure your ``origin main`` branch is

>         up to date with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        up to date using this command:
```
This would be the edit to ensure accessibility.

        
        .. code-block:: text
        
           git checkout main && git fetch origin main && git rebase origin/main
        
        If you encounter any issues when running the preceding command, solve them before
        continuing with the release. Ensure that your style, tests, and documentation
        checks are passing too.
        

>         Create a new branch for the version you want to release with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Create a branch for the version you want to release using this command:
```

Author: Some of the lines of code presented here need to be modified by the users.

        
        .. code-block:: text
        
           git checkout -b release/X.Y
        

>         Update ``X`` or ``Y`` version numbers in your project and replace the ``dev0``
>         with a ``0``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

        
        Check all locations, including
        :ref:`The \`\`setup.py\`\` file`, :ref:`The \`\`pyproject.toml\`\` file`, and any

>         ``__init__.py`` or ``__version__.py`` your project may contain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ``__init__.py`` or ``__version__.py`` file that your project contains.
```

>         Stash and commit previous changes with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Stash and commit previous changes with this command:
```

        
        .. code-block:: text
        
           git add . && git commit -m "Bump version X.Y.0"
        

>         Tag the previous commit with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Tag the previous commit using this code:
```

        
        .. code-block:: text
        
           git tag vX.Y.0
        

>         Push the commit and the tag with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Push the commit and the tag using this code:
```

        
        .. code-block:: text
        
           git push -u origin release/X.Y && git push origin vX.Y.0

    .. tab-item:: New patched versions
    
        Patched versions allow you to fix issues discovered in published releases by
        cherry-picking these fixes from the ``main`` branch.
        
        To create a patched version, you must first identify which ``release/X.Y``
        branch it belongs to. Then, ensure your local ``release/X.Y`` is up to date
        with the origin one because other patched versions may have been introduced.
        
        .. code-block:: text
        
           git checkout release/X.Y && git fetch origin release/X.Y && git rebase origin/release/X.Y
        

>         If you encounter any issues when running this command, solve them before

Reviewer: Earlier, I debated using "command" versus "code" but used code because I wasn't sure command was correct. You can change the earlier edits to command or this instance to use code--but we should be consistent.

Author: Let us go with the usage of "command". This is the right word in this case, since the user is expected to interact with the command line when following this tutorial.

I guess it is a bit confusing because the Sphinx directive to highlight the commands is named "code-block".

        continuing with the release. 
        

>         Now, `cherry-pick <https://git-scm.com/docs/git-cherry-pick>`_ the fix commit
>         from ``main``, which solves for the bug. Do not merge changes from ``main`` into the
>         release branch. Always cherry-pick them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Now, use the following code to `cherry-pick <https://git-scm.com/docs/git-cherry-pick>`_
        the fix commit from ``main``, which solves for the bug. Do not merge changes from
        ``main`` into the release branch. Always cherry-pick them.
```

        
        .. code-block:: text
           
           git cherry-pick <commit hash>
        
        Ensure that your style, tests, and documentation checks are also passing.
        
        Increase by one unit the value of ``Z`` in your project version. Stash and
        amend these new changes with:
        
        .. code-block:: text
        
           git add . && git commit --amend -m "Bump version X.Y.Z"
        

>         Tag the previous commit with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Tag the previous commit with this code:
```

        
        .. code-block:: text
        
           git tag vX.Y.Z
        

>         Push the commit and the tag with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Push the commit and the tag using this code:
```

    * All tests are passing successfully.
    * All documentation builds successfully.
    * The project builds successfully.

.. dropdown:: Releasing major and minor versions

    Before performing a release, you must verify that your ``origin main`` branch is upd to date using the these commands:
    
    .. code-block:: text
    
       git checkout main
       git fetch origin main 
       git rebase origin/main
    
    If you encounter any issues when running the preceding command, solve them before
    continuing with the release. Ensure that your style, tests, and documentation
    checks are passing too.
    
    Create a new branch for the version you want to release with this command:
    
    .. code-block:: text
    
       git checkout -b release/X.Y
    
    Update ``X`` or ``Y`` version numbers in your project and replace the ``dev0``
    with a ``0``.
    
    Check all locations, including
    :ref:`The \`\`setup.py\`\` file`, :ref:`The \`\`pyproject.toml\`\` file`, and any
    ``__init__.py`` or ``__version__.py`` your project may contain.
    
    Stash and commit previous changes with the commands:
    
    .. code-block:: text
    

>        git add pyproject.toml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       git add <files-edited-for-version-number-change>
```

Author: Thanks for adding this.

    
       git tag vX.Y.0
    
    Push the commit and the tag with these commands:
    
    .. code-block:: text
    
       git push -u origin release/X.Y
       git push origin vX.Y.0

.. dropdown:: Releasing patched versions

    Patched versions allow you to fix issues discovered in published releases by
    cherry-picking these fixes from the ``main`` branch.

    Before performing a patch release, you must first identify which
    ``release/X.Y`` branch it belongs to.
    
    .. code-block:: text
    
       git checkout release/X.Y
       git fetch origin release/X.Y
       git reset --hard origin/release/X.Y
    
    Now, use the following code to `cherry-pick <https://git-scm.com/docs/git-cherry-pick>`_
    the fix commit from ``main``, which solves for the bug. Do not merge changes from
    ``main`` into the release branch. Always cherry-pick them.
    
    .. code-block:: text
       
       git cherry-pick <commit hash>
    
    Ensure that your style, tests, and documentation checks are also passing.
    
    Increase by one unit the value of ``Z`` in your project version. Stash and
    amend these new changes using this command:
    
    .. code-block:: text
    

>        git add pyproject.toml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       git add <files-edited-for-version-number-change>
```

    
    Tag the previous commit with this command:
    
    .. code-block:: text
    
       git tag vX.Y.Z
    
    Push the commit and the tag using this command:
    
    .. code-block:: text
    
       git push -u origin release/X.Y
       git push origin vX.Y.Z

Publishing artifacts
--------------------
When a new version is released, some artifacts are provided with it. In Python,
these :ref:`Artifacts` are typically the ``Wheel`` and ``Source`` files.
Documentation in the form of PDF and HTML files are also considered artifacts.

.. attention:: 

   Do not distribute artifacts without approval. 

   A project needs to be authorized to be released into public by following the
   process explained in the :ref:`Project approval and public release` section.

There are three possible places where artifacts can be published:

.. grid:: 3
    
    .. grid-item-card:: :octicon:`lock` Private PyPI
       :link: managerial
       :link-type: ref

        This is a private index used to share artifacts across the company
        while making sure that projects remain private.

    .. grid-item-card:: :octicon:`unlock` Public PyPI
       :link: legal

>        :link-type: ref

Reviewer 2: Watch out...
* Card links are not pointing to the correct hyperlinks

Author: Good catch! Fixing this.

        This is the `public PyPI` used by the Python community to distribute
        libraries. A project requires Ansys authorization before being
        published in this index.

    .. grid-item-card:: :octicon:`mark-github` GitHub
       :link: technical
       :link-type: ref

        This is a section created by GitHub within a project repository where
        artifacts can be published. A project requires Ansys authorization
        before being public in GitHub.

Private PyPI
~~~~~~~~~~~~
It is sometimes necessary to host and pull packages that are not ready to be
hosted on the public `PyPI`_. For example, if a PyAnsys library requires
auto-generated gRPC interface files from a feature or service that is still
private, this package should be hosted on a private PyPI repository.

ANSYS, Inc. has a private repository at `PyAnsys PyPI`_. Access is controlled
via a username and a password: 

+---------------------------------------------+--------------------------------+
| Credentials for publishing to private PyPI  | Value                          |
+=============================================+================================+

> | Username                                    | __token__                      |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Username                                    | ``__token__``                  |
```

                        $env:TWINE_REPOSITORY_URL=https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/pyansys/_packaging/pyansys/pypi/upload
    
        .. tab-item:: macOS
    
            .. code-block:: text
    
                export TWINE_USERNAME=<PAT>
                export TWINE_PASSWORD=<PYANSYS_PYPI_PRIVATE_PAT>
                export TWINE_REPOSITORY_URL="https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/pyansys/_packaging/pyansys/pypi/upload"
    
        .. tab-item:: Linux/UNIX
    
            .. code-block:: text
    
                export TWINE_USERNAME=<PAT>
                export TWINE_PASSWORD=<PYANSYS_PYPI_PRIVATE_PAT>
                export TWINE_REPOSITORY_URL="https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/pyansys/_packaging/pyansys/pypi/upload"
    
    
    Finally, run this command:
    
    .. code-block:: text
    
       python -m twine upload dist/*

Public PyPI
~~~~~~~~~~~
Publishing :ref:`Artifacts` to `PyPI`_ is the way of distributing :ref:`Python
libraries`. Publishing to `PyPI`_ requires a username and a password:

+-------------------------------------------+----------------+
| Credentials for publishing to public PyPI | Value          |
+===========================================+================+

> | Username                                  | __token__      |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Username                                  | ``__token__``  |
```

+-------------------------------------------+----------------+
| Password                                  | ``PYPI_TOKEN`` |
+-------------------------------------------+----------------+

The ``PYPI_TOKEN`` is a password in the form of a GitHub secret. This secret is
unique to each project. It can only be obtained after the first release to the
public PyPI. Follow the process :ref:`Project approval and public release`
process to obtain public release authorization.

Once authorized, contact `support@pyansys.com <mailto:support@pyansys.com>`_ to

> get support during the first release of the project. The team will enable the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
get support during the first release of the project. The team then enables the
```

custom ``PYPI_TOKEN`` once your project has been successfully released for the

> first time. For future releases, everything will be automated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
first time. For future releases, everything is then automated.
```

.. dropdown:: Using GitHub actions

    The following code allows you to publish any Python :ref:`Artifacts` contained in
    the ``dist/`` directory to the public PyPI. It is expected to be included when
    :ref:`Use GitHub actions`:
    
    .. code-block:: yaml
    
        release-pypi-public:
          name: "Release to public PyPI"
          runs-on: ubuntu-latest
          if: github.event_name == 'push' && contains(github.ref, 'refs/tags')
          steps:
            - uses: pyansys/actions/release-pypi-public@v3
              with:

>                 library-name: "ansys-<product>-<library"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                library-name: "ansys-<product>-<library>"
```

                twine-username: "__token__"
                twine-token: ${{ secrets.PYPI_TOKEN }}

GitHub
~~~~~~
Publishing :ref:`Artifacts` to GitHub is also possible. These are available in
the ``https://github.com/pyansys/project-name/releases`` section. The
visibility of these artifacts follows the one in the repository. Visibility can
be private, internal or public.

For enabling public visibility of a repository, follow the process explained in
the :ref:`Project approval and public release` section.

.. dropdown:: Using GitHub actions

    The following code allows you to publish any Python :ref:`Artifacts` contained in

>     the ``dist/`` directory to the public PyPI. It is expected to be included when

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    the ``dist/`` directory to the GitHub release created. It is expected to be included when
```

    :ref:`Use GitHub actions`:
    
    .. code-block:: yaml
    
        release-github:
          name: "Release to GitHub"
          runs-on: ubuntu-latest
          if: github.event_name == 'push' && contains(github.ref, 'refs/tags')
          steps:
            - uses: pyansys/actions/release-github@v3
              with:

>                 library-name: "ansys-<product>-<library"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                library-name: "ansys-<product>-<library>"
```
